Welcome to AB testing podcast your modern testing podcast your hosts Alan and
Brent will be here to guide you through topics on testing leadership agile and
anything else that comes to mind now on with the show we're back again I'm Alan
I'm brain and it's an episode of a B testing it's to be clear our 145th
episode of season one of a B testing where did you go so here's the deal
where did I go Brent you well your voice like dropped like 25 decibels which is
gonna be fun for me later but also Brent because he's on Windows can't get his
camera to work so now I can't tell where his microphone is I can't tell what's in
his hand I can't tell what he's eating it's a it's a black hole on one side of
the podcast today yeah so we are me and the three are all gonna are all going to
enjoy how quickly does Alan trigger when he doesn't even know what the hell is
Brent doing now Brent was a couple of minutes late and I was moments away from
just sending a message out to Twitter and saying first DM reply gets to be on a B
testing with me this week unfortunately I lost and it's Brent again but actually
you can still hear that no no no this is a conversation that the one I want to have at least a little bit today maybe the
whole time we'll see what happens we'll see what once we get out of our
tangents is probably better for you and I how you been what's new anything
exciting yeah I don't think I mentioned this in our last podcast so I'll just
proactively say I regretfully inform you and the three that I survived my surgery
last Friday Oh what surgeries you have oh that fear your wrist no no this is I
was thinking about it on the way and wait did you finally get the lobotomy I'll
let you finish that's that was me attempting to do a drooling noise no I
had a hernia repaired ah and they feel the skin back and shove it back in and
sell you back up no and it's unfortunate I was like a horrible doctor I
would improvise too much it's unfortunate the camera is not working
for me because then I would absolutely torture Alan and show him all of the
maybe it's the internet sparing me first and foremost up until then I did not
know what a hernia is do you know what a hernia is yeah I do do you okay for the
listeners then I guess because I didn't I did not know I mean as we've talked
about before I'm in my 50s now I did not learn exactly what a hernia was until
three months ago and essentially as you get older and I hate going to doctors and
because I'm now at an age where so many doctors start their statement with those
three words as you I guess it's four words get older the the wall of your
abdomen can wear thin when it does one of the purposes of your abdomen is
basically to keep your your keep your stuff for it belongs keep your intestines
right where it belongs yes unfortunately as a process of digesting things what it
does is it creates places in your intestines where it will push against
the your abdomen and normally your abdomen will hold it back what happens
though as you get older your your abdomen weakens and then your intestines
are able to push through this is so disgusting and gross ever everybody just
keep on hitting fast forward until we're talking about something else and
certainly overexerting like for me the cause I know what it was is I was doing
yard work and I was acting like I was 18 and and just aggressively moving
bags and bags of and anyway it can be dangerous when you have a hernia
because if it's if it's not reducible which is medical term for you can push it
back through the hole then one of the things that's potential happen is it
could lose it that part of the intestine that's poking through could lose its
blood supply and die and then shortly after it so will the host excellent yeah
but they got to put back together like Humpty Dumpty right yep and I got lucky
my my surgeon is actually known for being one of the best in the north
Pacific Northwest still I'll tell you that man yeah that's true
little trophy that says I'm the best and and I had performed a robotic surgery so
I have currently three scars on on my stomach and three itty-bitty scars and
one was for the the whatever the instrument they use basically a surgeon
chopsticks right itty-bitty little hole that these string whatever that is that
they do the next hole is for a camera and that that middle hole was is
literally like an inch above my belly button and then the third hole is where
they stuff in a tube and they blow me up like a balloon with carbon dioxide okay
so right now I'm just gonna say for our two listeners who are left could one of
you send me a message on Twitter in two weeks on Friday maybe midday and remind
me to not ask Brent what he's been up to that would be great I think it's I
think it's gonna help the podcast so just thanks in advance for that you don't
you don't want to learn about no let me check on my podcast maybe podcast testing
agile software leadership yeah it doesn't fit oh I'm glad you're okay my
apologies yeah boy oh boy man you are old I was teasing Brent Cronela I've been on
the planet longer than Brent but for whatever reason you just seem way older I
don't get it yeah it's it's because I'm wiser I think that's it I think it's
something else we'll figure it out have I been up to anything no yeah I've been up
to getting mad that the Covid rates are going back up again that's what I've
come on beeps we we run the risk of waxing political I know all I want to
say is everything I want to say is just gonna landslide into just be careful out
there don't you don't need I don't know why we're not ready to have big festival
concerts yet I'm talking to you lala Palooza we're not ready to have Florida
exist I saw a bumper sticker by the way that you'd love it said DeSantis 2024
make America Florida I wanted to I wanted to slap on a just say no sticker
right next to it but I didn't have one with me all right off of the political
podcast on to I I will just say I mean I don't want Florida but I would pick
Florida above California any day I'll just say that right now they're totally
different versions of crazy sauce and then since we're on it why the hell is
Cuomo not already impeached what the hell I don't get that either politics are
broken why why is it that Trump is still even allowed to hold public office again
in the future if you want why is DeJoy still in charge of the post office
there's all kinds of crap that's wrong I got two years till my daughter is out of
college and I'll be accepting free agent offers for the country that wants me to
move there the most so two more years on my contract and then I would like to I
like to explore new opportunities in new countries I'm frickin serious it's it's
just too broken and nobody gives a crap about fixing it no and the people that
do aren't in the position to do it so it's just it's all about power and money
and not about helping people and it pisses me off so anyway speaking of
being pissed off I think it's I'd like to talk about this a little bit although I
do find the absolute irony and potential in appropriateness of two white guys two
white old dudes having this conversation but I still want to have it I'm assuming
that you and or our listeners are both have at least heard of if not read a
lot of the articles and accusations around the Activision Blizzard lawsuits
I have not heard anything about I will catch you up and then I want to have a
little bit of a talk about it this topic is not the right conversation so is
Blizzard is Blizzard a customer of unity probably so I probably shouldn't go
into it all I'll say is there is some bad behavior and it's just it just it
just hurts me to see like someone told me a long time ago that the way to figure
out what your values are are to think of the things that really push your buttons
the most and your values are the opposite and fairness is such a huge
for whatever reason such a huge value for me I can watch a sporting event in a
sport I don't care about with teams I don't care about but if I see a bad
call or something unfair happened I just get riled up and mad I can't handle
seeing things that are unfair probably shouldn't go into the details of that
stuff but just yet another example of people being treated horribly and unfair
I can talk about the times early in my career when I see that saw this at
Microsoft again I'm not gonna name names it's not fair of me a second-hand
person to do that but one of my friends a woman was constantly harassed had
sexual propositions made to her by her boss the guy was married with kids it
went on for a year before he finally at least in this case he finally you've
heard this before Brent decided to spend more time with his family that's that
the Microsoft line when it went when an exec is fired it wasn't special projects
it's not well special projects means they're still employed they just take
them out of their team they removed that they just removed the sore from the
team but when someone's when an exec that's fired at Microsoft it was almost
always they decided to spend more time with their family it was kind of
hilarious but you know I saw what are they called microaggressions not as
much in my last few years there I do say that but early there was a little bit
more of a frat boy culture and I did see that in some teams and just and I think
given who I am now if I back then I would have done more about it now that
I'm who I am now I don't see it but it just I don't like well let me actually
take this out of the the negative into the positive a little bit as I can so
one I'm just mad I'm just part of me is mad this stuff goes on and part of
me is mad that people can't just treat others I just don't get it I see this
happen the golden rule man just treat others like you'd like to be treated I
don't get bullying whether it's male on male male on female female and male
etc I just it just irks me at all and I just don't want to see it and that got
me thinking about just diversity in tech because another thing happened this
week totally a different thing but it made me think so Stack Overflow did their
their survey and they published their results 82,000 responses to the
developer survey and you're not gonna believe this is a segue alright so and
they've published the information it's just demographic information nothing
really exciting here's the languages people use here's the salaries etc but
one thing kind of stuck out with me 82,000 responses 82,286 open to any
developer going to Stack Overflow who wanted to fill out the survey so they're
getting a little bit of it there's a bias there I forget which one it's gonna be
what's the bias when all you have is the people that actually responded
information and not a full gamut of people whatever that one is right but
just short of go ahead it there's definitely a selection bias selection
yeah okay so of those 82,000 sorry to keep saying the number 92 just short of
92% of the responses were men just over 5% were women with non-binary and
prefer not to say filling in the rest 92% of the responses were men I don't know
what your teams were like like I was on a team once at Microsoft that was almost
it was like 45% women never been close to that before I went and looked just for
transparency I went looked at my current team and it's 23% female so I have a
couple questions but I want to go over today there there's the big lead at
Brent's going Alan this is I'd rather talk about my surgery man yeah so anyway
they blew me up like a balloon with the carbon yeah no no this is this is an
important topic you know I can commit on this podcast into my team it's like as
my team grows and next year I'm definitely doubling down on getting a
more diverse team and not just diversity men and women but all the
different flavors we can get there I've talked before how on the podcast we have
and I didn't Brett and I didn't have our yearly business meeting yet well I
actually have never had one as I mentioned before on the podcast we I
take all any money I get for talks or courses like the course on ministry of
testing comm on an introduction to modern testing which is excellent any
money I get from that anything about modern testing where I'm paid for it
that money just goes into the AB testing podcast bank fund and it may be
testing is an LLC just so I can get a tax ID so I can open a bank account for
it so there's some money in that account and I think with your approval no
pressure man as we're recording I could just delete this part if you don't
think it's cool I do want to donate $500 each to both girls who code and the
women in tech charities there's 501 3 C's on behalf of a be testing it's
only a little but hopefully it helps just get a few more women people of color
etc into into tech because I think we're losing out I just again I go to
fairness we're losing out by not having I can pick on ourselves just having a
bunch of white dudes doing the job we're losing out so what do you think
is that cool with you guys spend our money that way certainly I like the
idea of girls who code like that one a lot when when we talk about the the
other one that you brought up I'm wondering if it's actually called girls
in tech I'm sorry it's girls in tech org yeah I'm wondering wondering how we
diversify right because it's why don't we do this this is better actually let's
let's get our listeners help us figure it out I want a be testing to give a
thousand dollars to wherever is gonna we think is as a group gonna make the most
as a community the most difference in helping diversify and in my words make
fair the tech world and it can be one place multiple places I am willing to take
input on that but I would like to put our money where our mouth is and see if
we can just make even the smallest little difference here because you and
again you and I sure we're in charge of teams we can do we will definitely do our
part in hiring but we can't do it by ourselves here's one thing and I think I
may have shared it on a podcast before but I feel like I have right because you
keep talking about two old white people and I'm gonna push back on on that as a
concept the fact that we're two old white people is meaningless here right
I've done the research and I can sit and I can waste the rest of the podcast
explaining to you why diversity and inclusion are important and it will not
be at all about body parts or color right it it's it's I don't know if I've
I've shared this right so I grew up so I come from what is turned as white trash
roots so there is a lot in my familial history that's in alignment with a lot of
the the poor downtrodden type phenomenon or classic demographics that's what I'm
looking for that that we hear about non-trivially I do not feel any
association with the term white privilege I personally find that term
offensive because of my family history but ignoring that aspect right the
diversity and inclusion it is let me let me let me just try to summarize it like
diversity why is it important diversity is not about demographics it's about how
you experience life okay and how you experience life is also associated with
demographics in other words diversity inclusion like what race you are what
gender you are is not causal but heavily correlated are you following me so far
I am so far all right I'll let you go a little farther before I really back in
all right for example women there's been lots of specific studies around gender
studies that show that women in in leadership positions actually boost
company's performance and it is it is in no small part because women's experience
of the world is often more they're often less risk-averse they're often more
collaborative they they want to hear the opinions of others right however it's
not solely owned by women and then there's a lot of aspects where where I'm
sure you've encountered these where whether certain women that by their gender
are women but are there actually their style and their training their culture
or whatever I don't know how they got there but their behavior is very toxic
masculine the benefit of diversity is getting these other different definitions
into the pool of what's right and going these other right ways of approaching
problems are all just as right but they come from different so if you yeah I'm
losing myself I'm going I'm gonna really in here because I think you're you're
you're walking a thin line and I I am not in a thin line I am and I will I
will assert this like what I am doing is I am trying to share the science behind
diversity and inclusion and around the studies that have been done here and
diversity getting at the end of the day okay I found a way of doing it at the
end of the day diversity is around getting a diversity of ideas into the
ecosystem okay and and when you get multiple different ideas what happens
Alan you get great ideas and right I we are stifling we are blocking our path to
get there because we don't have a way to get those diverse ideas into our teams
right and that's where inclusivity comes in because everybody has their own
personal identity they have their own sense of do I feel included or not and
what the science has shown around inclusivity is you will not gain the
benefits of diversity if people don't feel included if they don't feel
psychological that's exactly the topic I wanted to get into I will I don't want
to dwell on this I will say I will disagree with you on on white privilege
being offensive I think it's a thing and I think there are plenty of studies that
would show it would exist but I want to move on because what can happen exactly
what you said is the problem is is we read and what I saw what I have seen is
that you can get into a situation where people are afraid to speak up they're
afraid to put their ideas in there they don't have psychological safety and you
don't get psychological safety by itself it has to come with transparency and
accountability though to me those three things have to work together so what is
psychological safety Britain I kind of already defined it but go ahead no no
no but before yeah because before we continue on like the one thing I also
want to call out you and I being old white guys is not what matters here what
matters here is that we prioritize collaboration psychological safety and
the birthplace of ideas those who don't like in your position at work Alan if
you got replaced by someone who fit this other characteristic but lost that
environment that goal that initiative you have around psychological safety I'm
gonna say is harming that company okay yeah no I agree that's that's all I'm
gonna say I think there's too much of this focus on on on birth characteristics
but I'm gonna get I disagree but let's go on psychological fair enough
psychological safety is essentially the construct or it is where you have an
environment where people can feel they can say what they view is a true view of
the world and not be bullied by it feel and not face any repercussions and not
face repercussions right and it's critical to call out but there's no way
to have like one of our values unity is best ideas when that statement can not
it can never be true without psychological safety because you'll never
you never have even a remote guarantee of hearing all the ideas well and actually
you don't even want to hear the I mean you just want the ideas to be breeding
with the other ideas right right and if the ideas are silent how is that gonna
happen and I have a bunch of ideas throughout here also but it's I think
it's worth it to talk about what are some things what are some things you do
in your order what are some things you've seen that work to help build a
culture of psychological safety so I am constantly working through this there
are two things that I have done in the past that worked very well on this
number one is I ban well the very first thing that I did is I would have an
individual speak up in detail what they are going on and then I would give them
permission and I've shared this on the podcast before it's essentially during a
retrospective the person who's sort of walking through what happened is often
generally the person who did the work and I say all right you are to you are
to tell the story and everyone else in the room is going to operate under the
assumption that you were perfect in every way right and that it was actually
the rest of the team if anyone's to blame it's the rest of the team we let you
down and the team's job is to figure out how how did we let you down like if this
ticket usually in retrospect we're talking about tickets that went into
the weeds and it could be in that creates it a an environment where each
individual as they listen to the story they're they're now thinking through
okay how did I actually let this this person down like I actually saw like
stand up two weeks ago I thought this thought but I kept it quiet right and and
now now this this ticket suffered the the team suffered so I started thinking
through the consequences of this independence in a way that forces
individuals to collaborate together other times other times I've I've as I
mean a very simple technique is you you look for and you simply ban any
semblance of blamewang which just ban it that's like setting the framework for it
but I've also found you have to keep kindling the fire because even in an
organization that has a pretty good level of psychological safety you'll
still find occasions or people feel afraid to make a mistake or they they're
not public enough with their mistakes which of course eliminates the ability
to or the opportunity to learn from those mistakes which is the thing I want for
example we review as I mentioned before we have a weekly review weekly team
meeting where we look at projects and dates if someone has to move a date the
only real question is okay cool what did we learn and emphasizing that learning
another thing is one thing that helps in my org is my pure what would I call this
pure unabashed oh I'll put it this way I consciously or unconsciously I you know
my idea thing the way to get good ideas is get a lot of ideas and throw
the bad ones away they watch me screw up all the time by or watch me propose
dumb ideas and when there's somebody pushes back I won't give the exact example
I posted something hey I was talking to so-and-so we thought it'd be great if
we did this what do you think and what can happen in an org without
psychological safety or a hippo or where the highest paid person's opinion
matters the most they would just be yes sir we'll go do it but instead even
one of our newer employees it was great he pushed back and told me why it was
a bad idea and then I very quickly and publicly said thank Tim for pointing that
out and said you're right we shouldn't do this makes a lot of sense and just
it's continually finding those examples of showing people it's okay to speak up
it's oh there's not a hierarchy or a rule you have to follow one of the
things that pushes my buttons of has to do with fairness or just lack of
safety is the there's probably a name for this move you know when I'm when
Brant when I can't get you to do something so I get I tell my boss to
tell your boss to tell you to do it that up and over and down if that ever
happens I just flip out do you yeah I cannot handle that if you need
something ask for it yeah I have it probably nothing to do with safety but
it just it got me thinking on that track no so for me I don't I actually don't
flip out on that one I internalize that I introspect I go I now at a point where
I operate on the assumption that I had not earned this person's trust and
that's why they did it and I so and then that actually is also the way I then I
then go and do the confront yeah and to be clear I don't flip out externally
just it pushes my buttons inside I just I will just have them go contact the
person directly but right but I will tell you I will tell you if the reason
why they did that so where it happens with me the most often is because they
did talk to me and I told them no and they didn't like the answer right and in
that one they still need to have that discussion I right I believe in managers
but not hierarchy and I tell my team that all the time we have managers but
not hierarchy and sometimes people who are a skip level or two below me they'll
ping me on slack say I'm sorry to bother with you on this directly but you know
it's like and I remind them don't be sorry we have managers not hierarchy and
anybody and that's one good thing about it's usually a new employee one thing
about unity in my org especially because I care about this is everyone is
everyone feels comfortable or should feel comfortable talking to anyone and of
course as my organization grows it's a bigger fire to keep kindled and that fire
is psychological safety accountability transparency the the other thing that you
just called out just to shift back to that like I do think one thing that's
really important is to lead by example on that one as a leader I admit my
mistakes all of the time I will publicly do stuff self-deprecation all of
the time I I I apologize to my team and go wow you know what if you guys didn't
report to the world's worst manager this would have happened this way but it
didn't it happened this other way right leading by example where where
specifically I acknowledge my mistakes and that I show what the preferred
behavior of the preferred action would have built basically creates trust within
within the team and we have much more friendly conversation yes and let's talk
about trust for a minute like actually you're going so I want to pivot yeah
that that's where I was going I think trust is that basis of psychological and
there's another model that fits in well with that term it's it's the the
pyramid from Pat Lynch on his five dysfunctions of a team talks about the
first dysfunction is trust if you don't trust each other if you don't have that
safety you can't have the in his words you can't have he calls it conflict I
like I prefer debate if trust is missing we're afraid to have that debate
and we and we or we take the debate personally and we can't flesh out those
ideas the way we need to if we can't debate over what about this what about
this what you think we should do this we have to be able to have a debate and
discuss and not be afraid to tear someone's idea down or to build someone
else's idea up in order to come up with the best solution but without trust you
can't have that healthy conflict and then once you can have that debate then
something Amazon calls disagree and commit a lot but that and again not
putting Amazon's in model company but without that debate people aren't
committed you have a lack of commitment people feel like okay they're doing what
they want to do I think it's the wrong thing I'm not going to support it if
you feel like your voice was heard and decision is made that wasn't entire you
know wasn't the thing that you wanted to do you've you've had enough debate
about it that that commitment can be shared across the team without commitment
you can't have accountability because I'm not going to be accountable for a
thing or I've shared accountability for a thing that I didn't believe in and was
thrust upon me by the hippo and without accountability you can't get results so
this basis of trust or psychological safety is critical for flow of
productivity and output and well team health which has also been studies
shown as correlated to organizational health is directly correlated to the
quality of product that organization produces whether it's software or
whatever but organizational health is critical and it all starts with that
trust a psychological safety then you can build on that and get a team who
actually gets crap done yeah yeah actually you said it in a different
distinct way than I would have but I completely agree with everything you said
the because I'm absolutely right go on like the single most important book
I've ever read on this topic is one called getting to yes and it was written
by a masterful negotiator and it's a it's around how how do you have
discussions and it's still very valid value today and one of the key things
is how do you how do you convert what they call a positional argument to a
principled argument so a positional argument in this particular case is for
example let's say I disagreed with the topics that Alan wanted to present for
A B testing okay well he is in the position right he has all the the
editing equipment he has the recording equipment he absolutely could say well if
you don't agree with me Brent then I guess the podcast is over for today but
he I could I don't imagine you would ever do this but you could always do
the I'm gonna take my ball and go home strategy because you're in the you're in
the position of power on that discussion okay but a better approach would be a
principle one okay okay Alan I propose this as the the topic so one of the
things that I do with that focus is I try to convert it to anytime I see a
dispute anytime I see a discussion right how do I turn it into a principle
discussion versus a positional one and just as a metaphor when I'm very fond of
a a difference in this is this a Alan you and I were we're disagreeing on
something I'm not gonna try to flesh out the podcast metaphor it'll be too long
winded right in a positional discussion you and I are sitting on opposite sides
of the table and then generally one of us is gonna win and the other one's
gonna lose a positional discussion is is often always about it always results in
a win-lose proposition in a positional or a principal discussion what what we're
trying to do is move you to my side of the table and let's put the problem on
the other side there are times where where hey I want this this and that and
I'm like okay but the current implementation is going to take too
long and I need it by this date so can we can we can we come up with a different
strategy right I'm I'm laying out a principle that hey delivering this bare
minimum by this date is an important principle for me and yours you're
stating I'm I'm lost in the metaphor you are yeah but the more you change it
to say what are the principles that you're making your decision on Alan how
are you how are you thinking through this right the more I can encourage you
to say I move away from hey I'm the guy in charge and I I get to decide and the
more I can shift you to go okay here's here's the principles that I the
constraints that I wish to have satisfied for for whatever the final
product is then we shift away to okay how do we invent a new solution and
includes my definition of win along with your definition of win totally get it I
read that book many years ago it's it focuses primarily on sort of the
mediation negotiation aspect which you've described very well but it's also
knowing when to use those tools versus other tools to make sure everyone's ideas
heard so I would use it as part of a suite there I did look up though by the
way disagree and commit was it's a while while it's an Amazon principle
it's actually attributed to Andrew Grove at Intel whose high output management
book is excellent so that so for me me that book what it what I use it that one
for is it is to sort of help teach my folks how to communicate in the way right
yeah my everybody every one of one of the things you hear from me all the time
everybody on my team everybody I have ever met is awesome their ideas may not
be sufficiently thought out and their behaviors may may have some negative
consequences in the context that they're in but they are an awesome human being
and part of my job as a manager is to do the right matchmaking or the right
behavioral suggestions or teach them how to communicate so that they get their
stuff across in a way that will construct the win-win environment yes and
coaching employees on communication and framing and all those things and
listening is critical the one thing missing and again I thought the book was
good it focused a lot on and I guess been 15 years since I've read it that
that mediation negotiation like I said before what it doesn't tell you is what
I recall it telling you is some of the best advice I can give a leader who
wants to have an organization where best ideas women where there's trust and
their safety that they don't do enough of and that is shut up give you got to
give your team room to talk that's how you walk the talk because there's so
many people who say oh yeah we have psychological safety because I tell my
team we do and and they blah blah blah blah blah and they never shut up I
shut up and listen sometimes I will I will agree with that and I will take it
I don't know if I'll take it at one step further one step back but if you're
in the leader slowed down give additional time like resist your urge to
give advice for as long as you can and get better and better at better at it's
like learning to breathe or it's learning to hold your breath right
practice holding your breath for as long as you can and keep practicing it
because the more your quote-unquote giving giving this advice the more and
more instead of giving the advice ask questions that's the right question and
let me point you to another book that I think is great and this is not you you
being the three or you bring the coaching habit and so do more coaching
as a manager and when you a good coach a bad coach of crochets give you advice
throw the ball higher hit the ball farther move your leg back but a good
coach will ask you how does your right leg feel there or how does it feel where
your hands are on the bat what position is your hand in when you release that
shot they'll ask questions you get you to reflect and internalize what's going
on of course there's been some advice before that he can't do coaching it you
can't grow entirely via coaching but as a manager it's getting people to
reflect so they can learn if you give advice that's all you're going to do and
you're gonna spend a lot of time giving advice to your team so they can get
their stuff done instead ask them those reflective questions how did it feel
when you gave that feedback what do you think is what do you think is the best
way to solve this turn stuff around ask questions the coaching habit is so
excellent it's a book I've it's not even that old I reread it three times
now because every time I get some ideas that help me help me help other people
grow recommendation over five stars on Amazon that's what I give it if they've
turned it into required training and actually I've just here at Microsoft and
I've just yeah I keep I keep telling you my company made drag its ass out of
the gutter someday after all yep I keep telling you since Satya took over it's
it's a different place sorry took over when I worked in a toxic environment at
Microsoft so there is that right but he didn't have enough time to fix that and
I'm I keep hearing Xbox is still a an epic nightmare so I don't know that it's
fully done yet but he's on the right path I absolutely agree with that no I
hope so because yeah as the frat boys grew up and you have 45 year old frat
boys running the company it was a mess so I'm glad to hear it's getting better
and I trust you and we talked about why team sucks last time so you can go
back to the last episode for that anyway I do want to give our listeners Brent had
no idea what I was gonna make him talk about today so thanks Brent for that
conversation when I sprung it all on you but I still have one more thing I
do it quickly cuz I gotta go have another meeting fair enough trust is
everything okay the they actually the best manager I have ever I ever had he
passed on one rule in these days if you only do one thing as a manager the
only thing that matters is you need to recognize that when you start off
managing people you have not earned their trust and work towards doing so
that is the only thing that matters and I will tell you in my experience that is a
hundred percent correct right you have to do it within a business context but
but recognizing that you cannot be reorged into earning their trust and
that it is on you as a leader to do so if there's any secret rule I would say to
my success as a manager it is that one all right so I'm gonna build on that and
then we're gonna close cuz that reminds me of yet another book I want to
recommend which is Mac Maxwell five levels of leadership and he says at
first you're put into a position of leadership that's it the next level is
people have to give you permission to lead them and that's your trust and
until you do that these bill just like the chonies five levels once people
give you permission to lead them then they'll actually work for you and
they'll follow through and they'll do work you'll get shared results and then
the next level of leadership is you focus almost all your work on people
development because people see you as a lead I'm not gonna go into the deeply
in the book to have people development then at the pinnacle it's your job is
to create leaders and people just follow you because of you because of who you are
not because they have to not because of hierarchy but because of your leadership
attributes but you can go read the book but those first two levels really sunk
your point home for me when I read this book again a book I've read a
couple of times but first you're in a position of leadership and then people
have to give you permission to lead them and there's definitely something to
that people who felt like I'm the I'm a whatever level leader you have to respect
me I just hate that crap no I do not you get nothing from title you get nothing
from position you still have to earn it screw you and you know who I'm talking
about you I do but well I have one person in mind when you say that and
I'm pretty certain he would fall in that category I've never worked for him
no I have I have probably another one you're talking about when I was in
engineering excellence and crap I am so late for the other meeting oh my god I
just want to finish one point okay make your point not and I'll bitch on Peter
later all right the last thing I would say on this is be anti-NIH be anti not
invented here in all forms if you see in a team meeting that everybody's sort
of cow-tailing because the one person who is the domain expert is the one
that's suggesting the advice that means the other rest of the team doesn't feel
like they're part of the solution the way the more you can get them integrated
and feel like they're inventing it along with that person the more you're
gonna see this inclusive behavior the more you're going to see psychological
safety that that's obviously gonna start creating some conflicts and some of
some of the advice we've given today in the podcast will help you mitigate
it but you need to get them having the conversations first then make those
productive I am done go ahead and no I already did so yeah just already done I
am NOT Peter LaFort nor am I we'll see you next time man thanks for the time
today and I'll have a good weekend you too all right